I'm gonna kick this off by reading a
comment from Haruki who's a longtime
viewer I'll give a link to his YouTube
channel below this video
Haruki makes videos in Japanese but also
German English
I think Spanish is coming up on his
channel so he's a man who studies many
different languages
Haruki wrote to me saying a couple of
years ago I attended a conference in
Europe a conference where scientists and
policy makers came together to address
climate change and resource use so this
is an ecological conference he attended
back then I was so not even optimistic
to expect that people there would talk
about veganism at some point as we all
know love tremendous benefits for the
environment however as you can imagine
the topic of diet never came up in fact
they did not talk about any practical
solutions to tackle climate change
whatsoever the only things that
discussed were paradigm shift and D
growth and as you might guess none of
the catering options were vegan there
were some vegetarian options but it was
mostly meat so had to speak up with
benefits of changing her diet and the
problem of offering non vegan meals at a
conference of this kind that was trying
to address climate change at the end of
the conference one of the organizers
came up to me and said that I was being
disrespectful note that word
disrespectful as he had tried hard to
offer only organic food and meals I came
to the conclusion that there is no hope
in them to lead society to adopt climate
change mitigation practices I understand
that some scientists and politicians do
really practice veganism or seriously
address another practical solution but
the majority seem not to be so several
different things they want to respond to
here in this this message from Haruki
first and for I'll just say that issue
of disrespect it's worth taking the time
to really try to imagine the other
side's perspective there for you and me
for most people watching this channel it
seems so obvious that veganism is linked
to questions of ecology and that it's
observed in counterproductive for
someone to be advocate
on these ecological issues while buying
and serving meat or while engaging in
the green washing of meat the ecological
glorification of certain kinds of fancy
meats such as organic meat you know this
is counterproductive and immoral etc sir
that's obvious from our perspective but
there's another perspective here from
whom those ideas are so new so shocking
so unthinkable that they think it is
disrespectful for Haruki to mention
veganism at this conference this
organizer thought it was disrespectful
for him to raise it that's very
interesting right now I mean this is an
issue for me it speaks to many different
ways obviously I'm involved with
veganism for a long time interested
engage with issues of ecology but these
are not the only political issues in my
life the battered me also cared about
endangered languages and did Eunice
people's all kinds of issues in history
and politics of Southeast Asia many many
political issues in my life I think that
when people at a conference like this
stand up and speak about a really
irrelevant issue people do not treat it
as disrespectful all right like let's
say Haruki had stood up and said yeah
well what about police brutality against
African Americans can black people in
the United States that would be
irrelevant
I mean Oh climate change and police
brutality towards black people it's
really irrelevant and at conferences
people do that kind of thing all the
time I've spoken at conferences you know
I give my speech and then someone wants
to stand up and make a statement about
their faith in Jesus Christ like really
when you do conferences whether it's
academic conferences or ecologic
conferences but all kinds of
intellectual forms people will stand up
and mention something that is so
irrelevant that it's embarrassing and
you got to deal with it I mean that's
one of the reasons we have a moderator
they have to they have to moderate the
discussion and that includes telling
people I'm sorry this is irrelevant we
can't talk about this I do not think
that someone who raised an issue like
that about you know ethnicity or
something like that something totally
irrelevant I do not think they would
have been addressed as being
disrespectful and Haruki was right he's
mentioning if he isn't was treated as
well why is that I think this reflects
the extent to which the
is perceived as a threat by these people
and maybe it really is a threat you know
what I mean this is a threat to you know
their whole paradigm I hate the overused
word paradigm it's a threat to the way
they see themselves as consumer
activists as consumer advocates as
ecological activists it's a threat to
how they live their lives on a day to
day basis it's a threat to their whole
message and it's a threat to their
conception of themselves as being part
of the solution instead of being part of
the problem veganism draws a very clear
line as to who is part of the problem
and who is part of the solution and all
the people at this conference suddenly
see themselves as being on the wrong
side of the line now I can relate to
this partly is really one conference in
particular I'm thinking of what was
disgusted that the whole conference
everyone was eating meat and it was
basically supposed to be a conference on
Buddhist philosophy so there were you
know academics there there were
university professors who taught
Buddhist philosophy there also huge
number of Buddhist monks in their full
robes in uniform and I was the only
person there who even asked for a
vegetarian option nobody else even asked
that I know because I walked up to the
staff and I was speaking to the staff in
lotion I've probably mentioned this
anecdote before somewhere on YouTube
somewhere in the last couple of years so
nobody else asked nobody else cared and
I could see on their plates everyone
else there was was eating the meat like
it wasn't like they were avoiding it at
the buffet or something and you know
again now I did not discuss it with the
other people attending the conference I
discussed it with the kitchen staff and
they tried to get me somebody said to
the kitchen staff there's supposed to be
a conference about Buddhist philosophy
you have nothing vegetarian everything
you know this is unforgiveable it's
ridiculous and they you know they agreed
they think they cook something new for
me they they created a fresh option
again this has this sort of terrible
sense of an ethical undertow no matter
how polite you are about it there's an
element of accusation because we're
making a very clear call to say this is
the minimum standard I expect you to
live up to now
their question is why can't people
respond to that positively why can't
someone at a conference like this say oh
this is a new and alien idea I haven't
really thought about it before this is
the first time I'm encountering this why
can't they react to that in a more
positive or constructive way there are
many bad things I can say about ecology
as an intellectual habit of mind or as
an academic discipline in many ways it's
a kind of terribly lazy and fatuous
field that has made shockingly little
progress of any kind in the last thirty
years I mean it hasn't even made
progress philosophically in my opinion
and it's been pathetic as a series of
political movements whether you look at
the Green Party or other attempts to
articulate the mandate of ecology and
politics I think it's it's really
lamentable how terrible things been in
last 30 years however that being said
the sort of habit of mind you practice
in ecology and I think haruki himself
will have will have experienced this are
really a whole bunch of tiny little
paradigm shifts we find out about a
factor that you just weren't aware of
previously so I'll give you an example
carpeting and REITs nois is not a dirty
joke I mean that literally
I remember with one of my girlfriends
she was complaining about the ecological
significance of the difference between
fancy plastic bags when you buy sling at
a shop and they give you a thicker more
beautiful plastic bag and thinner or
cheaper plastic bags she thought that
this was a big ecological problem that
more and more shops were using this
slightly fancier and more reusable style
plastic bag that's what I'm sorry you
know this is just not true when you look
at the waste stream so the waste stream
is an attempt to mathematically analyze
how much garbage ends up in the
landfills of the world how much gets
recycled how much gets put into
landfills when you do waste stream
analysis all plastic bags of this kind
they're just not a considerable source
of pollution or waste whether you're
handed in percentages or ranked
categories of what's important and I
said you are going to be shocked to find
they are much much lower as an
ecological priority as a problem they
are much less of a problem than looking
at car
opening and drapes and grows my
girlfriend was shocked she's never
thought about carpeting her drapes
before as as a major source of pollution
in landfills now the only government
I've seen addressed that because again
can look this up pretty much anywhere
different countries and some specific
cities very often the city level of
government will do waste stream analysis
because they're having to plan the city
dump for the future of the city local
municipal government as the city of hong
kong i remember that an official
government program for that because when
the city of hong kong did the analysis
of their waste stream they were shocked
they had tons and tons of garbage being
generated out of carpeting and why well
this is true of many cities around the
world but in hong kong especially there
were just so many apartments where every
year people were tearing out the
carpeting and replacing it i can imagine
a lot of reasons for that in alcohol
including just how expensive rent is the
climate etc etc but the enormous bulk of
carpeting every year was getting pulled
out of the ground and sent to the dump
and replaced and again this adds up to
tons and tons is vegetable weight and
volume that's difficult to imagine in
the waste stream now why I mentioned
this the point is if you really care
about ecology all the time you're
learning about these things we just
think wow I never thought of that I
never thought to come up with an
estimate for just how much carpeting the
city of Hong Kong puts into dump every
year and then to compare that in
relative scale and say okay is carpeting
more of a problem or less of a problem
than plastic bags is carpeting more of a
problem or less of a problem than
certain types of industrial waste is
carpeting more of a problem or less of a
problem than plastic furniture being
thrown in the garbage or wooden
furniture being thrown in the garbage
that stuff adds up also in the waste
stream right where where are our
priorities and how are we thinking about
these things so in that sense anyone
who's serious about ecology they should
be really prepared to hear guess what
here's a new priority here's a new
factor you haven't thought about the
vegan issue the knot of issues related
to meat production and you have to
reevaluate again it's not so much
looking at in isolation
how important is veganism compared to
the difference between people driving
gas cars and driving electric cars you
know it's very it's very depressing for
us to face up to but you know the type
of savings you get ecologically because
people are still driving cars between an
electric car and a gas car is not that
radical you can measure it in
percentages you can measure it in
megatons of pollute the pollution it is
an improvement don't get me wrong the
type of change you can achieve by having
you know a coal power plant as opposed
to a gas power plant right now the
United States is making that transition
in a huge way partly because they have
new cheap sources of gas from fracking
so they have new new sources of shale
oil within the United States and more
and more coal power plants are shutting
down and they're having gasoline burning
plants to simplify this I think and it
is an ecological improvement is a
difference and you can measure it in
percentages you can measure it in
megatons of you know carbon being put in
the atmosphere and there are a number of
other really interesting ecological
factors that are unique to coal
different types of pollution that that
are especially a problem with coal that
you're limiting there is some
improvement but you're getting down into
percentages you're getting down to these
fine points of comparison and what's
interesting is when you look at the
whole life cycle production and
consumption of meat this is not a
difference of a few percentage points
it's actually a shocking paradigm shift
difference if you have millions of
people eating meat as opposed to
millions of people refusing to eat meat
the change in the impact is just
unbelievable you know there's there's no
way to compare again whole life cycle
you don't just look at the
slaughterhouse you don't just look at
the final product look at the whole
process of the industry the water
consumed the water pollution the air
pollution the use of resources in
producing pork as opposed to producing
tofu beef as opposed to producing
chickpeas this is something radically
exponentially different as well as being
fundamentally ethically different as
well as being better for your health etc
etc but this is this is something that
some of the nanka logical backgrounds
should be able to here should be able to
analyze should be able to appropriate or
assimilate click and they can't so
Hiroki goes to this this festival and
the reality is he's talking to people
who are his enemies
but who should be his allies how do you
bridge that gap how do you if ever reach
someone who shares with you a belief in
this objective apparently but who
regards veganism as so alien that they
think you mentioning it is disrespectful
to them that he is being disrespectful
to their conference on climate change
ecology and resort Natural Resources
that's really alien I mean in some ways
me like what Haruki is describing here
the other people at this conference are
more alien from Haruki that I am a lien
from someone else who's vegan but this
other part someone else who believes in
say Christianity I'm an atheist I don't
believe in Christianity at all and in
this very when I talk to people who are
real believing Christians they're very
alien for me but if we have veganism in
common obviously there are a whole lot
of beliefs whole lot of issues in terms
about look in the world where there's
something to build on and Haruki is
going to this conference and instead
seeing this this fissure where do we go
from here well look one of the themes I
talk about again and again on the
Internet is the issue of generosity of
spirit you know do I have the generosity
of spirit to sit down and try to
cooperate with someone who's Christian
when I'm not just an atheist I have a
lot of reasons to dislike Christianity
to be biased against a Christian you
know to resent the whole history of
Christianity and even what Christians
are doing today Christian missionaries
their impact on indigenous people you
know within Canada the terrible things
Christian has done with in Southeast
Asia the terrible things Krishna
unbelievable it actually does take some
generosity of spirit on my part to
bridge that gap to sit down the same
table to try to try to cooperate work
together and at this conference I mean
apparently Haruki came away from it with
no nobody who's gonna cooperate with him
working which is which is very sad I
think one of the saddest things about
middle age is that many people lose
their generosity of spirit
some people never had it some people
didn't have any generosity of spirit
teenager so don't get me wrong it's not
a universal or innate characteristic
that people have but or when you meet
people are you going to judge them by
their potential to do good in the future
or are you going to judge the
by who they are right now who they
already are what they're already doing
the most generous thing you can do with
people it's to set aside the bad things
they've done in the past is set aside
the harm they're doing now and to look
at them and relate to them in terms of
their potential to do good in the future
and on a case by case basis I think you
need to meet people and look into their
eyes and you need to make that decision
for yourself there's no way you can make
a blanket decision like this is how I'm
gonna talk to Christians or this is a
home gonna talk to white people who are
into yoga and rock crystals and
pseudoscience but who are also vegan you
know it's again a huge gap they're very
difficult for me to cooperate lesbians
out of those people there's no way you
can have a blanket decision this is how
I'm gonna talk to people who are part of
the scientific community or professional
politicians engage with these ecological
issues but who eat meat who are non
vegan or this is how I'm gonna relate to
people who are hunters but who really
care about ecology and forest
conservation people who hunt and eat
meat but you care about some other
things there is no way you can you can
have a decision that applies to all them
uniformly I think on a case-by-case
basis you need to talk to people you
need to listen to people look into their
eyes if possible and you have to decide
if you have it in you whether or not you
have the generosity of spirit to treat
them not as they are to treat them not
as they deserve to be treated not to
judge them based on their past conduct
or their current conduct but to judge
them based on their potential to do good
in the future to make the world a better
place because the people of this
conference I think some of them have
that potential even if there's scumbags
even if they're engaged in every
ridiculous excuse for organic meat happy
meat for living a lifestyle that I find
ethically unforgivable for living a life
of self-selected obscurity of voluntary
ignorant and excuse making for evil and
cruelty self-indulgence and harm of the
worst kind am I gonna put that aside and
am I gonna try to do something positive
with you yes or no it's a face to face
human to human decision
and for that reason I mean one of the
questions I get asked obviously is why
our comments disabled on this channel if
you compare the amount of time you spend
if you spend one hour making comments on
the internet reading in a public forum
whether it's reddit or on YouTube and it
may be fifteen minutes here and there
that adds up you may think oh I never
spend an hour doing comments in the
Internet use a stopwatch actually time
yourself how much time you're spending
talking to strangers do that kind of
anonymous typewritten format whether
it's on Facebook or YouTube or Twitter
many of you watching this video you are
wasting many hours a week but it's very
likely you're spending more than one
hour a week with that kind of typing
communication with strangers I would
challenge you to stop doing that take
that one hour and instead deal with one
person who has some potential by
telephone by Skype or by face-to-face
and as you do that again and again many
times it'll lead nowhere
you'll spend one to one hour talking to
somebody and you'll decide either they
don't have it in them to make some pus
happen or that you don't have it in you
to make slim positive in cooperation
that's fine
but I promise you taking that one hour
to talk to one person on skype by
telephone in person it's a much more
meaningful way to seek out the basis for
real activism then engaging in a hundred
hours of anonymous faceless witty banter
and comment sessions because that can
lead nowhere and when you're doing it I
urge you to keep to keep this concept of
generosity of spirit in mind because
you're not out here to prove that you're
smarter than other people and the
internet traps people that people lose
sight of that they think they're out
here to be the smartest or the prettiest
or the most popular and you're not all
of that is meaningless the only test
that matters is whether or not you have
the generosity of spirit to cooperate
with other people and whether or not you
can find the other people who really can
cooperate with you and I hate to say it
but there's a
meaningful sense in which the lives of
millions of animals hang on this the
quality of life for millions of human
beings hangs on this and yes in some
abstract sense climate change the future
of planet Earth hangs on this so if
you've got that one hour to spend I'm
asking you to spend it better